= Welcome to Image-A-Day

Image-A-Day is a website where participants can upload and share an image every day.

It was conceived as project to help me do at least a few minutes of art every day. 
I invited family and friends to join me in my quest and created a simple PHP 
website with the single rule: you had to upload an image each day.
It didn't matter whether it was a photo, a found image, or even the same image as
yesterday. You can {read more about my version of the project}[http://ryankelln.com/#imageaday].

Eventually I found time and help to convert the old website to a {Ruby on Rails}[http://rubyonrails.org/] 
site thanks to the help of Stuart Zilm. The {new hotness}[http://image-a-day.com/]
is still an invite-only place for friends and family, but the idea is that you
too can run your own server and invite whomever you like to participate. The
project has brought us closer together and provided a fullfiling challenge 

The {code for the new site}[http://github.com/szilm/image-a-day] is available on github.


== Release History
See CHANGELOG for details.

*0.1*:: <em>28 Sep 2010</em> First functional version.

        At this early stage you must have familiarity with Rails to admin the site.
        Security and features are at a minimum but images can be uploaded and viewed.


== Requirements

* Ruby >= 1.9.2
* Rails 3
* server tested on Debian and Ubuntu 10.04

---

== Getting Started
NOTE: tested on Ubuntu 10.04 only

1. At the command prompt, clone the application:
       <tt>git clone git://github.com/szilm/image-a-day.git</tt>

2. Change directory to <tt>image-a-day</tt>
       <tt>cd myapp</tt>

3. Run bundler to install gems:
       <tt>bundle install</tt>

4. Create the postgresql user (as postgres user, giving):
       <tt>sudo -u postgres createuser -S -P -d -R -e image-a-day</tt>
       This gives the image-a-day user the following permissions
       * -S: not superuser
       * -P: prompt for a password
       * -d: allow databases to be created
       * -R: cannot craete new roles
       * -e: echo the commands
       See link:http://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.4/interactive/app-createuser.html for more details
       
       Enter a password that you will also enter into the <tt>config/database.yml</tt> file

5. Create the database and migrate:
       <tt>rake db:migrate:reset</tt>

6. Update the database seed data and load it:
       * Edit <tt>db/seeds.rb</tt> if you want a different default testing account
       * <tt>rake db:seed</tt>

7. Run the server:
       <tt>rails server</tt> (run with --help for options)
       (use <tt>rails s -d</tt> to easily run in detached mode)

8. Go to http://localhost:3000/ and you should see the site running.

You can find the following resources handy:

* The Getting Started Guide: http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html
* Ruby on Rails Tutorial Book: http://www.railstutorial.org/

---

== Thanks

Thanks to Stu for all the help! Thanks to all the brave participants who really made
this project shine.

Image-A-Day exists because of the hard work of many generous people:
* The Ruby and Ruby on Rails communities
* {Haml}[http://haml-lang.com/] and {Sass}[http://sass-lang.com/] communities
* {Compass}[http://compass-style.org] by {Chris Eppstein}[http://chriseppstein.github.com/]
* {Susy}[http://susy.oddbird.net/] plugin for Compass by {Eric A. Meyer}[http://eric.dirtcircle.com/]
* {Html5Boilerplate}[http://github.com/sporkd/compass-html5-boilerplate] plugin for Compass by {Peter Gumeson}[http://github.com/sporkd] (from the original {Html5Boilerplate project}[http://html5boilerplate.com/]}
* {Devise}[http://github.com/plataformatec/devise] by {platformatec}[http://blog.plataformatec.com.br/]
* {Paperclip}[http://github.com/thoughtbot/paperclip] by {Thoughtbot}[http://thoughtbot.com/]
And many others!

---

== License
Image-A-Day webserver software is released under the {GPL 3}[http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html].

Copyright (C) 2010,  Ryan Kelln and Stuart Zilm

Image-A-Day is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

Image-A-Day is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
